Amend A104309 to note newly-discovered bug and workaround (#18315)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/advisories/a104309.md

This fix introduces a [bug](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/119536) that could cause a rangefeed’s resolved timestamp to stop advancing. The corresponding changefeed will appear to be stalled in `RUNNING` state in certain conditions: If a rangefeed is running on a follower on a recently-merged range, and the rangefeed encounters an aborted transaction, then the resolved timestamp may stall.  Events such as row updates will still be emitted as normal, but new checkpoints will not be emitted.

After upgrading to a version with the fix for this advisory, **a104309**, your cluster may encounter a stalled rangefeed or changefeed even if it was not impacted by the original rangefeed bug. Monitor your cluster using the following mechanisms. For more details, refer to [Monitor and debug changefeeds](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/monitor-and-debug-changefeeds).

- Monitor cluster logs for messages like:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ none
    pushing old intents failed: range barrier failed, range split
    ~~~

- Monitor the following cluster metrics:

  - `changefeed.max_behind_nanos`
  - `changefeed.checkpoint_progress`

> - Monitor the `highwatermark` column in the output of the [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/show-jobs#show-changefeed-jobs) SQL command.

Author: ```suggestion
- Monitor the `highwatermark` column in the output of the [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/show-jobs#show-changefeed-jobs) SQL command. If it stops advancing, this indicates a stall.
```

- By restarting the changefeed with `initial_scan` set to `yes` and without a cursor timestamp. This will perform a full export of all current data across the changefeed.

> - By restarting the changefeed and providing a cursor timestamp. If a cursor timestamp is provided, an initial scan will not be performed. Instead, updates above the cursor timestamp will be emitted. The cursor timestamp can be initialized below the timestamp of omitted writes (refer to the reference documentation for [CREATE CHANGEFEED](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/create-changefeed)). However, specifying a cursor timestamp farther in the past than the [`gc.ttlseconds`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/configure-replication-zones#gc-ttlseconds) replication zone variable, which defaults to `14400` seconds (4 hours), results in an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By restarting the changefeed and providing a cursor timestamp. If a cursor timestamp is provided, an initial scan will not be performed. Instead, updates above the cursor timestamp will be emitted. The cursor timestamp can be initialized below the timestamp of omitted writes (refer to the reference documentation for [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/create-changefeed)). However, specifying a cursor timestamp farther in the past than the [`gc.ttlseconds`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/configure-replication-zones#gc-ttlseconds) replication zone variable, which defaults to `14400` seconds (4 hours), results in an error.
```

Reviewer: There is some formatting issue earlier on this page with:

> '{timestamp}with the timestamp expressed in nanoseconds with the logical component after the decimal point. For example, to query for the logged timestamp1707854079.38430848,2`

It isn't rendering because of the missing backtick.

Reviewer: @mdlinville This, under **Mitigation** is not rendering:

> '{timestamp}with the timestamp expressed in nanoseconds with the logical component after the decimal point. For example, to query for the logged timestamp1707854079.38430848,2`

Author: Wow, it was  single quote instead of a backtick! Fixed.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> This fix introduces a [bug](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/119536) that could cause a rangefeed’s resolved timestamp to stop advancing. The corresponding changefeed will appear to be stalled in `RUNNING` state in certain conditions: If a rangefeed is running on a follower on a recently-merged range and encounters an aborted transaction, then the resolved timestamp may stall if the node has a stale range descriptor cache. Events will still be emitted as normal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This fix introduces a [bug](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/119536) that could cause a rangefeed’s resolved timestamp to stop advancing. The corresponding changefeed will appear to be stalled in `RUNNING` state in certain conditions: If a rangefeed is running on a follower on a recently-merged range and encounters an aborted transaction, then the resolved timestamp may stall if the node has a stale range descriptor cache. Events like row updates will still be emitted as normal, only checkpoints will stall.
```

Reviewer 3: "If a rangefeed is running on a follower on a recently-merged range, the node has a stale range descriptor cache, and the rangefeed encounters an aborted transaction, then the resolved timestamp may stall. Events such as row updates will still be emitted as normal; new checkpoints will not be emitted."

Author: Edited Erik's suggestion to add these changes.

> After upgrading to a version with the fix for this advisory, **a104309**, your cluster may encounter a stalled rangefeed or changefeed even if it was not impacted by the original rangefeed bug. Monitor your cluster using the following mechanisms:

Reviewer 3: I think the previous paragraph clarifies what we mean by stalled. It is that checkpoints aren't emitted. The first sentence is a bit of a repetition though, Can we just say "Customers may be impacted by this issue even if they were not impacted by the original rangefeed bug. Monitor your cluster using the following mechanisms:"

> After upgrading to a version with the fix for this advisory, **a104309**, your cluster may encounter a stalled rangefeed or changefeed even if it was not impacted by the original rangefeed bug. Monitor your cluster using the following mechanisms:

Author: ```suggestion
After upgrading to a version with the fix for this advisory, **a104309**, your cluster may encounter a stalled rangefeed or changefeed even if it was not impacted by the original rangefeed bug. Monitor your cluster using the following mechanisms. For more details, refer to [Monitor and debug changefeeds](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/monitor-and-debug-changefeeds).
```

> After upgrading to a version with the fix for this advisory, **a104309**, your cluster may encounter a stalled rangefeed or changefeed even if it was not impacted by the original rangefeed bug. Monitor your cluster using the following mechanisms:

Author: ```suggestion
After upgrading to a version with the fix for this advisory, **a104309**, customers may be impacted by this issue even if they were not impacted by the original rangefeed bug.. Monitor your cluster using the following mechanisms:
```

- Monitor cluster logs for messages like:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ none
    pushing old intents failed: range barrier failed, range split
    ~~~

> - Monitor the following cluster metrics:

Reviewer: Link to https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/monitor-and-debug-changefeeds may be useful here

  - `changefeed.max_behind_nanos`
  - `changefeed.checkpoint_progress`

> - Monitor the `highwatermark` column in the output of the `SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS` SQL command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitor the `highwatermark` column in the output of the [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/show-jobs#show-changefeed-jobs) SQL command.
```

> - Monitor the `highwatermark` column in the output of the `SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS` SQL command.

Author: ```suggestion
- Monitor the `highwatermark` column in the output of the `SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS` SQL command. If it stops advancing, this indicates a stall.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: I think we can say that if the high watermark stops advancing that indicates a stall.

If your cluster experiences a stalled rangefeed or changefeed after upgrading, you can work around the issue by [pausing](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/pause-job) and [resuming](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/resume-job) the stalled changefeed’s job. This may cause temporary disruption to the changefeed. To prevent recurrence, you can temporarily disable range merges by setting `kv.range_merge.queue.enabled` to `false` **only** until a fix is available.

As an alternative to avoid disruption to the changefeed, you can temporarily disable `kv.rangefeed.push_txns.barrier.enabled` to disable the fix to this advisory, **a104309**, until a fix to the stalled rangefeed bug is available.

> This issue is tracked by Issue [#119536](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/119536).

Author: ```suggestion
This issue is tracked by [Issue #119536](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/119536).
```
